# Lab 2: Source 2 Image

_From the very beginning, one of the main objectives of the OpenShift project was to make it really easy for developers to get code running on the platform_ 

Is this lab you will fetch the source code that you will use for the rest of the labs.  
You will make a copy (fork) of a github source code repository and then, using the source code, build and deploy the source code to OpenShift. 

Use Source 2 Image to build and launch the application on OpenShift 

In this lab you will build your application in a container running on OpenShift itself. This is done using Source 2 Image (s2i) 
which does the following:

1. Launches a container from a "builder image" of the matching runtime.  In this case that's a python 2.7 builder image.
1. Executes a build of the application in the running builder container.
1. After a successful build, s2i commits a new image containing the application and pushes it into the internal registry of OpenShift. 
1. The container is launched (or updated) because the image has been created (or updated). 

## Set up source code repository 

First, set up a source code repository in your own GitHub account.  You will need your GitHub username and password for
the next step.  If you don't have an account, first sign up for one at http://github.com/ and remember the username and
password.

<!---
Clone the application source code from the public GitHub repository: 

```execute
git clone https://github.com/sjbylo/flask-vote-app.git
```

Change into the new directory:

```execute
cd flask-vote-app
```
-->

Ensure you are in the top level home directory:

```execute 
cd ~/ 
```

The next step will fork the GitHub repository into your account called flask-vote-app.

Enter your GitHub username and then your password at the prompt:

```execute 
fork-repo sjbylo/flask-vote-app
```

<!--
```execute 
fork-repo 
```
-->

You should now have your own GitHub repository containing the example source code. 

```execute
ls -ld flask-vote-app 
```

Change into the new repository:

```execute
cd flask-vote-app
```

Run this command to verify the new repository belongs to you.  You should see your GitHub username in the output.

```execute
git remote -v
```

---
## Launch the application using s2i

"oc new-app" is the command that initializes an application on OpenShift. 
You will use it to get your source code running on the OpenShift platform. 

Using the following "dry-run" option, you can first see what the "new-app" command will do. 

The below command does the following:
1. looks into the current working directory ".", detects python source code and determines its related GitHub repository. 
1. creates a build object called a build configuration (BC).  The build configuration knows:
   1. the location of the python builder image repository.
   1. where to fetch the source code from, e.g. the GitHub repository. 
   1. knows the name of the output image which will be pushed into the internal container registry. 
1. creates image streams (IS) (a.k.a. Kubernetes image objects) to track the builder and the final application image.
1. these image streams are able to track when images are updated and trigger a rebuild or a re-deployment of the application.  
1. creates a deployment object called a deployment configuration (DC).  The deployment configuration knows:
   1. how to redeploy the application should the image be updated. 
1. creates a service object to enable discovery and access to one or more running application containers. 

``
Note: Normally the "new-app" command would automatically select a matching builder image (e.g. python) based on the source code but since our code specifically needs version 2.7 we explicitly provide the name and version of the builder image we want to use (python:2.7).
``

Run the following command in the 2nd terminal so we can see what's happening:

```execute-2
watch oc get pods
```

Run the command and see what is will do anc compare this to the explanation above. 

```execute
oc new-app python:2.7~. --name vote-app --dry-run
```

If there are no warnings or errors and all looks well, execute the command without the --dry-run option:

```execute
oc new-app python:2.7~. --name vote-app 
```

This command will list out all the OpenShift objects that are created.

``
Should the build configuration already exists from a previous invocation, start the build again with the following command:
``

```execute
oc start-build vote-app --follow
```

In the 2nd termninal window you can see the build container running.  That's the one that's building your vote
application. 

You can view the build process in the console and also on the command line, like this:

```execute 
oc logs bc/vote-app --follow 
```

You will see the following amongst the output:

```
...
STEP 8: RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble
...
STEP 10: COMMIT temp.builder.openshift.io/...
...
Successfully pushed ...
Push successful
```

FIXME: Explain the above. 

Note, how the source code is first cloned, the python dependencies are installed and then a
new image is committed and pushed into OpenShift's internal container registry. 

After the build the image will be automatically launched and a pod created.

In the 2nd termninal window you can see the build container has completed and a new application container is starting.

You can run rthe following command or view the 2nd terminal window.

```execute
oc get pods
```

You should see something similar to this:

```
NAME               READY     STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
vote-app-1-build   0/1       Completed   0          4m
vote-app-1-deploy  0/1       Running     0          3m
vote-app-1-gxq5k   1/1       Running     0          30s
```

1. The vote-app-1-build pod has completed what it was doing, namely building the python application. 
1. The vote-app-1-deploy pod was launched to deploy the vote application pod.
1. Now the vote-app-1-gxq5k pod has started.

By default, the application is not accessible from outside of OpenShift. Now, expose the application to the external network:

```execute
oc expose svc vote-app
```


To get access to the running application we need to expose it to the outside world. 

FIXME: Explain the route concept ... 

Create and check a route object:

```execute 
oc get svc
```

```execute 
oc get route
```

To check the application is working you can either use curl or load the URL into your browser.

Use curl to check the app is working

```execute 
curl http://vote-app-%project_namespace%.%cluster_subdomain%/ 
```

You should see... FIXME

Test the application in a browser with the following URL:

[Open the Vote Application](http://vote-app-%project_namespace%.%cluster_subdomain%/)


---
Optionally: If you are interested ... configure a webhook in GitHub to trigger the s2i build on code change. 

You can view the webhook and the secret to use here: 

```execute
getwebhook vote-app %cluster_subdomain%
```

Remember to set the ``Content type`` to ``application/json``

FIXME: get instructions for this 

Now, when you make a change to the code, commit and push it, a fresh build will be triggered. 

The following command makes a change to the Dockerfile, commits and pushes the change to GitHub.  This will trigger a
re-build and a re-deployment of the application.

FIXME: Is this useful?

```execute
echo >> Dockerfile && git commit -m "update" . && git push
```

