_From the very beginning, one of the main objectives of the OpenShift project was to make it really easy for developers to get code running on the platform._ 

Use Source 2 Image to build and launch the application on OpenShift 

"oc new-app" is the command that can initialize an application in various ways on OpenShift. 
You will use it to get your source code running on OpenShift. 

In this lab you will build your application in a container running on OpenShift itself. This is done using Source 2 Image (s2i) which does the following:

1. Launches a container from a "builder image" of the matching runtime.  In this case that's a python 2.7 builder image.
1. Executes a build of the application in the running builder container.
1. After a successful build, s2i commits a new image containing the application and pushes it into the internal registry of OpenShift. 
1. The container is launched (or updated) because the image has been created (or updated). 

Using the following "--dry-run" option, you can first see what the "new-app" command will do. 


 - ``Note: Normally the "new-app" command could automatically select a matching builder image based on the source
code but since our code specifically requires Python version 2.7 to function properly we explicitly provide the name
and version of the builder image we want to use (python:2.7).``

Run the following command in the lower terminal so we can view the running containers/pods during the rest of the labs:

```execute-2
watch "oc get pods | grep -e ^db- -e ^vote-app- | grep -v ' Completed '"
```

Run the command and see what is will do and compare this to the explanation above. 

```execute
oc new-app python:2.7~. --name vote-app --dry-run
```

The above command does the following:

1. looks into the current working directory ".", detects python source code and determines its associated GitHub repository. 
1. creates a build object called a ``build configuration`` (BC).  The build configuration knows:
   1. the location of the python ``builder image`` repository
   1. where to fetch the source code from, e.g. the GitHub repository
   1. knows the name of the output image which will be pushed into the internal container registry 
1. creates ``image streams`` (IS) (a.k.a. OpenShift image objects) to track the builder and the final application image
1. these image streams are able to detect when images are updated and trigger a rebuild or a re-deployment of the application  
1. creates a deployment object called a ``deployment configuration`` (DC).  The deployment configuration knows:
   1. how to re-deploy the application should the image be updated
1. creates a ``service object`` to enable discovery and access to one or more running application containers. 


If there are no warnings or errors and all looks well, now execute the command without the --dry-run option:

```execute
oc new-app python:2.7~. --name vote-app 
```

This command will list out all the OpenShift objects that were created.

 - ``Note: Should the build configuration already exists from a previous invocation, start the build again with the following command:``

```execute
oc start-build vote-app 
```

In the 2nd terminal window you can see the build container running.  That's the one that's building your vote application. 

You can view the build process in the console and also on the command line, like this:

```execute 
oc logs bc/vote-app --follow 
```

You will see the following amongst the output:

```
...
STEP 8: RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble
...
STEP 10: COMMIT temp.builder.openshift.io/...
...
Successfully pushed ...
Push successful
```

What happens during the build?

1. the source code is cloned.
1. the python builder image is launched and the code copied intro it.
1. the s2i assemble script is executed.  It knows how to build a python application.
1. the python dependencies are installed 
1. the running container is committed and new image is created
1. the image is then pushed into OpenShift's internal container registry

After the build the image is automatically launched and a pod created.

In the 2nd terminal window you can see the build container has completed ``vote-app-1-build`` and a new application container is starting ``vote-app-1-xxyyzz``.

You can run the following command or view the 2nd terminal window.

```execute
oc get pods
```

You should see something similar to this:

```
NAME               READY     STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
vote-app-1-build   0/1       Completed   0          4m
vote-app-1-deploy  0/1       Running     0          3m
vote-app-1-gxq5k   1/1       Running     0          30s
```

1. The vote-app-1-build pod has completed what it was doing, namely building the python application. 
1. The vote-app-1-deploy pod was launched to deploy the vote application pod.
1. Now the vote-app-1-gxq5k pod has started.

By default, the application is not accessible from outside of OpenShift. Now, expose the application to the external network:

```execute
oc expose svc vote-app
```


To get access to the running application we need to expose it to the outside world. 

FIXME: Explain the route concept ... 

Create and check a route object:

```execute 
oc get svc
```

```execute 
oc get route
```

To check the application is working you can either use curl or load the URL into your browser.

Use curl to check the app is working

```execute 
curl http://vote-app-%project_namespace%.%cluster_subdomain%/ 
```

or use another way which checks for the expected output:

```execute 
curl -s http://vote-app-%project_namespace%.%cluster_subdomain%/ | grep "<title>"
```

You should see... FIXME

Test the application in a browser with the following URL:

[Open the Vote Application](http://vote-app-%project_namespace%.%cluster_subdomain%/)


---
Optionally: If you are interested ... configure a webhook in GitHub to trigger the s2i build on code change. 

You can view the webhook and the secret to use here: 

```execute
getwebhook vote-app %cluster_subdomain%
```

Remember to set the ``Content type`` to ``application/json``

FIXME: get instructions for this 

Now, when you make a change to the code, commit and push it, a fresh build will be triggered. 

The following command makes a change to the Dockerfile, commits and pushes the change to GitHub.  This will trigger a
re-build and a re-deployment of the application.

FIXME: Is this useful?

```execute
echo >> Dockerfile && git commit -m "update" . && git push
```

