In this lab you will make a change in the source code and rebuild/re-deploy the container.

You can either make a source code change using an editor or you can use the below ``sed`` command.

For example, if you want to use an editor, you could use the ``nano`` editor to change the title of the voting definition and then save the file again:

```execute
nano seeds/seed_data.json
```

... ``OR`` you could use this command which will substitute some text in the voting definition file:

```execute
sed -i "s/Favourite Linux distribution/Your favourite Linux distribution/" seeds/seed_data.json
```

You have just made a change to the source code. After building and 'testing' the application on your local workstation and you are happy that it works, 
you now need to ``commit`` and ``push`` that change to GitHub. 

Check the changes you made with git:

```execute
git status
```

Git should show you that you made a change in the seed_data.json file - ``modified:   seeds/seed_data.json``.

Commit the changes:

```execute
git commit -m "Changed voting data" . 
```

 - ``After the next command, if you had set up the GitHub webhook in the previous lab, you should see the source to image build starting automatically.  You will see a build pod running in the lower terminal.``

Push the changes to GitHub:

```execute
git push 
```

If you did not set up a webhook, trigger a new build manually:

```execute
oc start-build vote-app 
```

Again, follow the build progress:

```execute
oc logs bc/vote-app --follow
```

You should see the python application building again, a new image being committed and pushed into the internal registry. The application should be re-deployed automatically. 

Once the new pod is up and running, check the change you made is now deployed:

```execute 
curl -s http://vote-app-%project_namespace%.%cluster_subdomain%/ | grep "<title>"
```

Test the application in a browser with the following URL:

[Open the Vote Application](http://vote-app-%project_namespace%.%cluster_subdomain%/)


You how know how to make changes to your code and test the results.  Next you will ... FIXME...

